# Proposal feedback and kick-starting the thesis, 2019-02-05

## Thesis Proposal: Feedback

### General thoughts

There are two separate areas generally worked on.

1. STRIDE and threat analysis
2. Testing

ArchUnit is about specifying architectural constraints. These are not tests. Then the code is analyzed to validate the specified constraints. And that is what the thesis will be about.

In other words: a test would be taking class A, making it talk to class B, and seeing if it fails or not. This is not what we do. We do validation of constraints.

### Research questions

#### 1. What are the security constraints that we want to be able to express?

Don't necessarily strive for completeness, but a few interesting constraints.  
There are only 6-7 types of checks in ArchUnit.  
Creating "4 or 5 security constraints would be golden"

Examples:  
* validate access points of the program, e.g. single access point
* when DB is accessed, there is a log produced (accountability)

These can take inspiration from STRIDE, but it's not about the threats themselves. It's about security constraints.

Architectural level security constraints are not new. This has been done with OCL and UML-(unintelligible...).  
We want to specify constraints that can be validated directly on the code without having a model. That's the novelty. There's no UML model or similar.

Brush up on knowledge of **security principles** and **security patterns**.  

OWASP: Introduction and Best practices are good starting points.

Look at [Riccardo's paper](https://lirias.kuleuven.be/1652367?limo=0) on "the big, macro patterns." Use as a starting point, follow links to patterns.

"A framework for security requirements engineering", Haley

**Katja sent a more thorough list of literature by email, look there.**

In essence, we start with a simple step:  
Take ArchUnit without modification. To what extent can we push it to specify security constraints?

#### 2. If we want to cover additional security constraints, what modifications do we need to make?

This can be done in several ways.

1. We could have some information in the code (annotations or "sugar") to help validate this.  
2. Maybe we have to augment the framework to make this easier. New types of rules, or providing base classes that should be extended.
3. Additional language keywords?
4. New framework?

The design space is quite open, and this is the part of the thesis that is interesting. We have to progress to this point quickly.

#### 3. Validation

By the time of the mid-term meeting, we should have a specific plan in place.

**What type of projects do we look at? And how do we do the validation?**

We'll look at existing open-source systems.

Two possible approaches:

1. Could take existing applications with security requirements, and translate these into our constraints. Then show that they can be validated through simulated insertions of vulnerabilities.
2. Or, look at an existing evolution of a project where a known vulnerability was introduced at some point. Check-out the code before the vulnerability and add our constraints. Validate that the vulnerability is caught when we fast forward to the vulnerable version. Do this for maybe 2-4 cases.

Some systems have okay-ish documentation of security requirements, but many of them don't. Will be difficult to find good projects.

**How "empirically correct" should the validation be? (If we choose option 1)**

Could go fully sound (injection, randomization) or Bricolage (less heavyweight, do it yourself). **The examiner may have opinions on which approach to choose.**

With the first option, we would have to write code to perform the random injections.

Once the thesis is done, R+K are interested in writing a paper on this. This paper could contain more validation as an extension, if necessary.

Let's keep this as a discussion item. Once we have clearer ideas of what to do, we can dive deeper into what type of validation to use.

### Related work

Specifying constraints; which constraints and where are they taken from.

This section is written bit by bit, as we brush up on this knowledge.

### Notes on generalization over programming languages

We stick to Java, as that is the language we are most experienced with. (Although Riccardo would have liked to see Python or similar being used)

If the constraints are generalized and can be used in several languages then that is good.

Example: scripting languages use files rather than classes. If we specify constraint in terms of files it could cover both cases.

The implementation itself will be specific to Java.  
If the specification is too generic it will become difficult to implement. Try to find a balance.

## What's next

Await an email from our (soon to be) assigned examiner.

In the coming 3 weeks:
1. Choose what constraints to work with  
2. Analyze the tool to see what constraints it can express

**Now**  
1 week of intense study on security principles, security requirements, security architectural patterns.

**2020-02-13**  
By Thursday of next week, produce a list of security constraints that we think will be interesting to work on.
Send this list of constraints to Riccardo. A quick sync that day by email.

**2020-02-21**  
On Friday the week after at 14:00, have a skype meeting.  
By then, we should have a list of security constraints that we want to work on and started assessing how these can be supported by the tool. Aim to have an initial assessment by this date, and finish this work by the end of February.

## Workflow

**Please put everything on git**  
Writing, references, code. Invite R+K to the repository.

**Work closely with Katja regarding literature**  
Don't hesitate to send a ping. Relay what articles we are reading to ensure we're not getting off track. Can do this by email or slack.

## General advice

Don't think that you have a lot of time.  
End of May is the deadline. That will come by very fast.  
Push hard at the beginning.

We should let him know what we want more or less of, so that we can tune the thesis to our interests.

Have fun and enjoy the autonomy you have now, being free of responsibilities.