# Feedback on initial testing of constraints, 2020-02-21

## Status report

We’ve looked at all 5 constraints and implemented an early version of all except *Secure Access Layer*, which we held off on due to similarities with *Input Guard*.

We have tested the rules against a small Java project, and they worked. Implemented the rules, and then edited the code such that the rules were broken and ensured this was caught.

We feel like we don’t innovate much; we merely use the framework. We do think there is some room for innovation with the *Don’t Log Secrets* pattern by analyzing the “composition” of method arguments. This could allow us to check if a secret object is transformed into a string, for example, before it is passed to the logger.

## Feedback

So far you have gone with the annotation route. You could also choose more of a programming paradigm or framework-like route, where for example assets must implement/extend an interface/class provided by us. The choice has to be justified, we should discuss further. R thinks annotations are cumbersome, prefers to lift security concepts into the language as constructs (custom code syntax?) or entities (interfaces/classes).

As for lack of innovation, that is perfectly fine at this point in the project. We’ve gotten familiar with ArchUnit, which is what R asked us to do.

Stefanie Jasser has a paper on security rules (should be on Zotero). That paper has a follow-up paper where they implement a conformance checking tool. They augment a system with *aspects*, a sort of monitoring point in the system, which they use to check if rules are violated. Quite similar to our project, but they use *dynamic* analysis and we will use *static*.

R has written a paper on the basic *security mechanisms* (e.g. interception, logging). Wants us to reason about what the concepts of these rules are (e.g. user, check point), so that we can turn these into language constructs/entities which will be used to enforce the constraints. We should come up with the minimum set of concepts that are necessary to define and enforce our rules. R will also share some papers that he has co-authored about security concepts.

## Our questions

**Do you think there are any important patterns that we haven’t looked at?**  
There are definitely more. We can look at “security rules” for more inspiration.

**Could an *authenticator* be a concept?**  
Yes, although that’s quite abstract. Could have something like an *authentication point* as a concept.

## What’s next

**Now**  
Look into additional security patterns, branch out to “security rules”. Once we receive literature from K, read about security mechanisms and concepts and start thinking about the concepts we will use to define our constraints.

**2020-02-27**  
Meeting with R in person at 13:00, K joins in via skype. Demonstrate our code, show how checks against annotations work in ArchUnit. Discuss our progress with security concepts.

**2020-03-03**  
Skype meeting with R+K at 16:00. Discuss security concepts that we have come up with.
